In this lecture we look at locates in by x path.
So X path in Selenium is an example path used to navigate through the H2 most structure on a web page.
It's the language of find in any element on a web page using the XML path expressions.
X path can be used for both h html and email documents to find the location of any elements on a web
page using the HTML dom structure.
So the below diagram explains the basic structure of an X path locator.
So we have a current node which is indicated by two forward slashes.
We have a tech name which can be something like IMG, Div, P, etc..
We have a select attribute which is indicated by an ad sign.
We have an attribute, so this can be an I.D., class type, etc., and the attributes will equal a
value.
So this will be the value of the attribute.
So if you imagine the attribute is I.D., then the value won't be BTN underscore one.
So there are two different types of ex parte locators.
Absolute and relative.
Absolute ex parte locators.
Contains the complete path from the root element to the desired element.
Absolute exports typically begin with a single forward slash, which implies the route node.
The disadvantage of an absolute path is maintenance, as you may need to update the path if a change
is made to the h html structure as it will break the existing path.
We also have relative exports and these are far more commonly used.
Relative X path doesn't require the full path to find an element.
It starts with a double forward slash, which means it can search two elements anywhere on the web page.
It's also less prone to h two more changes since it only starts looking from the point you specify.
So this is a high level overview of ex parte locators.
So let's look at an example.
So I'm going to open up Google Chrome and I'm going to go to the Automation System website and I'm again
going to go to the Buttons page and I'm going to press F12 on my keyboard.
And I'm going to click on the Elements tab, which is the document object representation of the page.
So as we know, we have hate smell, tax opening closing h civil takes an open and closed in head tag
which sits inside the original tag and also an open and closed body tag which also sits inside the cage
smell tax.
So I'm going to be demonstrating an absolute X path locator.
So I'm going to write an absolute x path to identify the button one element.
So to do this, and as it's a absolute x path, I need to begin from this start in terminal nodes and
draw all the way through until we get to the bottom one element.
So I'm going to do this by writing it as I go along in Notepad.
So the starting point is this Haitian oil tank.
So I'm going to write forward slash H HTML and then forward slash.
So this is where I'm started.
And then the next take is the body take.
So I'm going to write body like so and a forward slash.
I'm then going to expand the body.
And at this level we can see that we have a deep take here and there's only one deep take.
And when I hover over this on the left hand side, you can see the page is highlighted in blue.
So we know that button one sits inside this depth.
So I'm going to write.
Death and then forward slash.
So if I expand this dev.
At this level.
We can see there's two dips here at the main objective of an idea of sidebar.
So by hovering over Dave of an idea of mine, we can see that Batman is highlighted still.
So this is the debate that I need to use to assess, to debate at this level.
I need to write a slight different type of path here.
So again, I'm going to write div by the end of that div, I'm going to use square brackets with a one
in there.
And that's to say that because there's two divs at this level, I want to use the first div.
If I change that tattoo, that would indicate to you the second of.
And by default, if I didn't write a number here and just left it like so by default it would use the
first div that it comes across.
So I am going to write one just as a safety measure and then a forward slash.
So if I expand this mine.
If.
At this level, there is a single dev, so there's no other development at this level.
So I'm going to right dividend.
And I'm going to write a number forward, slash and expand this one.
And at this level there is a header.
A P tag, a Dave tag and a second div tag.
So I noble highlights initiative tag bottom someone is highlighted and this is it appears to be the
div which acts as rows on the web page.
So as this is the first event that I've come across at this level.
I'm going to write.
They've square brackets of one to indicate the first they've.
Because there is another div here.
So I am then going to expand this dev.
And at this level, there is one, two and three tips.
So we're not high like this first one.
You can see the bottom one is highlighted on the left.
So we know that the button one is within this div here.
So I am going to write forward slash.
Dave and because there's multiple Dave's at this level, I want the first Dave.
Which is this one highlighted.
And if I expand initiative at this level, we can see that there is an ally.
An ally, another ally.
But it was also a button here.
So this is the element that I want.
So it's bottom of an idea, but someone.
So I'm just going to use the element name, which is button.
So I am going to simply riot.
Button.
Like so.
And that is the absolute x path to get to bottom one.
So all we did was start in at a small note.
We trawled through all the elements until we got to bottom one.
So how can I prove that this absolute x path is right?
So later I'm going to write a test that will use this value, but is also another way that we can fetch
the absolute full X path.
And that's quite simply by using the selected tool to select the element of interest.
Today's highlighted.
And if I right click, you'll see a option to copy.
There's an option to copy full x path.
If I select that and in Pisces value below I can then compare.
And we can see that the absolute X path that I've written matches the one I've just retrieved.
So that's how I know that.
That's correct.
So that is absolute ex parte locators.
So the problem with these absolute ex parte locators, as I've explained, is that if a web developer
came in here and added an additional dev earlier than the one I've used to get to button one.
So, for example, say if there was another innovative place before this one here.
Then that will mess up the absolute path to get to this button.
So instead of.
This first festive.
At this level.
I might need to change that too too, because it would be the second device if another tape was placed
before this one.
So this absolute X path is prone to change.
So if a web developer did make that change, I would then need to change my absolute x path to get to.
But bottom one.
So that can be an issue if you're dealing with websites that change often.
So luckily there is the option to use a relative x povs.
So relative parts don't care about the force structure to get to the elements.
So it doesn't start from the old L.A..
With a relative x path.
We start with two forward slashes, so this means to search anywhere in the document.
And what we can do is find a element or something unique about the elements that we can use to structure
or create a relative X path.
So if we look at this element here, we know it's a button.
So we can write quite simply, button.
And then we know it's got an idea of button one or button underscore one, which we know is unique.
So what we can write here is.
I'm opening square brackets.
At.
My D, which is the attribute.
Equals.
And in single quotes, I'm going to provide a value for the I.D, which I know is BTN on the school
one and at the end of this line.
I close in square bracket so that right there is a relative X path locator.
So what we're saying is search anywhere in the document for a button.
Search, search in this whole document for a button.
And here is found one.
But how do we know this is the correct button?
Because there's a second button here.
So we've used a unique attribute.
So we've used the idea attributes and we're looking for one that has a value of button one or B ten
underscore one.
And we've written this like so.
So we use ads and then provided the attribute type, which is ID equals.
And in single quotes we provided the value of the attributes, which is BTM one, and it closes square
brackets.
So this is a relative ex parte locator.
And the good thing about this is that if changes were made to the Web page by Web developers say say
they've added a div because we don't care, because we're not using the full, absolute path to get
to this element.
This will still be valid because they'll still be a button on the page.
We have an idea of beating on the score one, and that will be true unless the actual element itself
was changed.
For example, the order was changed from beating on score one to a different value.
So that is the difference between an absolute and a relative x path locator.
And it sees relative X path locators that are commonly used when we construct Selenium web driver tests.
So let's write some code to test both scenarios.
So in the clips I'm going to copy the class in the last lecture and paste it, and I'm going to call
this new 1l07 as we in lecture seven locate him by X.
Path like so and then click.
Okay.
I'm then going to double click this new class to open it.
So I need to change the bottom line here.
So this is going to be the only difference.
So we're still going to be going to the Buttons page.
So once I'm on the Buttons page, I want to click button one and I first want to try doing this using
the absolute X path locator, and then I'm going to change the test again to use the relative.
So I'm just going to use these two that we've written here.
So I'm going to write driver thoughts, find elements, buyer thoughts, X path and then within the
brackets and double quotes.
I'm going to pass this first one.
Like so.
And as is a button.
I want to click it.
So I'm now going to save this class and I'm going to try and run it to see what happens.
And we can see that the button has been clicked.
So we know that the absolute x path works.
So now I'm going to close this and I am going to highlight and copy and paste this line below and I'm
going to add two forward slashes to comments out just so that we have a reference to the absolute X
path.
So now I am going to copy this relative expert locator.
In these double quotes like so.
And to see if this works.
I'm going to save this class and try them on this one, too.
And we can see that the button was clicked again proven that the both the absolutes and the relative
X path locators work.
So that's it?
It's fairly simple.
The difficult bit about understanding ex parte locators is understanding what we need to do in order
to get to the value we require.
So for an absolute expert locator, we trawl through the document object model till we get to the element
that we require.
If a relative x locator we use something like unique attribute.
So we provide the element and a unique attribute to get to the elements of our choosing.
So we're going to see this far more often as we progress through this course.
So you'll become very familiar with it.
But for now, I hope that's a good high level overview of X Path locators.
Thanks for watching.